Action listed some two dozen recent microaggressions and acts of bias — someone had defaced posters
supporting transgendered rights, an economics professor had used the term “welfare queens.” Then I noticed
my course was on the list.

“There is a current class on the Civil War that simulated the pros and cons of slavery,” the Call to Action said.
“Many students of color found this discussion to be extremely insensitive and hurtful.”

I reacted with surprise, embarrassment, and — to be candid — indignation. I have been teaching college
courses on race and ethnicity for 12 years. Feminist and multicultural pedagogies inform my teaching
phiIOSOphy. I have tried to equip students with tools to think about difference and inclusion.

How could someone like me wind up on a list like that?

The American Civil War was a subject that I taught regularly. But this semester, I decided to include an
innovative curriculum called mt'tinggrﬂigjast. In an immersive role—playing game, students assumed the
identities of Kentucky state legislators during the crisis of secession in early 1861. Using highly detailed role
sheets and historical documents, the students-as-legislators debated the merits of remaining in the Union or
leaving to join the Confederacy. The game asked students to confront the complex motivations of Civil
War-era politicians. True to the historical moment, very few were antislavery; most were slaveholders. The
rules of the role-playing game prevented racist speech, but debates over slavery and secession necessarily
reflected the entangled imperatives of economics, politics, religion, and — most uncomfortably — racism.
After the Call to Action, one colleague asked why I had assigned a role-playing game for a topic as serious as
American slavery and secession. I hoped that it would enable my students to engage with primary sources in
ways that conventional seminar—style discussion did not. Studies in education and psychology have shown
that role-playing helps students practice empathy and communication. In my Civil War course, I believed
that historical role-playing would encourage students to inhabit a worldview wholly unlike their own. I hoped
they might emerge with a new understanding of the racist logic supporting slavery and the profound legacy
that the Civil War Era had on the United States.

I expected that the exercise would be productively uncomfortable. Most of the students had to empathize
with characters they found morally repugnant. Understandably, that is hard to do, but it is essential to the
historian’s craft. To do the work of history, we must understand that real people — with all their virtues and
ﬂaws — made history. We need not sympathize with them or absolve them, but we commit to comprehending
them on their own terms.

Learning that my class contributed to a climate of racial insensitivity on campus has compelled me to reﬂect
on how I teach. Have my courses overemphasized an intellectual, almost clinical engagement with the past
that disregards the emotional and moral turmoil such an encounter can cause? As a historian I confront the
brutality of racism in my research every day, and I treat it with the critical distance my discipline has taught
me. Perhaps I have become desensitized to our painful past —— like a doctor habituated to delivering a bad
prognosis.

Perhaps in encouraging my students to practice empathy with people who lived in the past, I forgot to
practice empathy with the very people sitting in my classroom.

The Call to Action, its list of grievances and demands, has received a mixed response from the faculty here at

Action listed some two dozen recent microaggressions and acts of bias — someone had defaced posters
supporting transgendered rights, an economics professor had used the term “welfare queens.” Then I noticed
my course was on the list.

“There is a current class on the Civil War that simulated the pros and cons of slavery,” the Call to Action said.
“Many students of color found this discussion to be extremely insensitive and hurtful.”

I reacted with surprise, embarrassment, and — to be candid — indignation. I have been teaching college
courses on race and ethnicity for 12 years. Feminist and multicultural pedagogies inform my teaching
phiIOSOphy. I have tried to equip students with tools to think about difference and inclusion.

How could someone like me wind up on a list like that?

The American Civil War was a subject that I taught regularly. But this semester, I decided to include an
innovative curriculum called mt'tinggrﬂigjast. In an immersive role—playing game, students assumed the
identities of Kentucky state legislators during the crisis of secession in early 1861. Using highly detailed role
sheets and historical documents, the students-as-legislators debated the merits of remaining in the Union or
leaving to join the Confederacy. The game asked students to confront the complex motivations of Civil
War-era politicians. True to the historical moment, very few were antislavery; most were slaveholders. The
rules of the role-playing game prevented racist speech, but debates over slavery and secession necessarily
reflected the entangled imperatives of economics, politics, religion, and — most uncomfortably — racism.
After the Call to Action, one colleague asked why I had assigned a role-playing game for a topic as serious as
American slavery and secession. I hoped that it would enable my students to engage with primary sources in
ways that conventional seminar—style discussion did not. Studies in education and psychology have shown
that role-playing helps students practice empathy and communication. In my Civil War course, I believed
that historical role-playing would encourage students to inhabit a worldview wholly unlike their own. I hoped
they might emerge with a new understanding of the racist logic supporting slavery and the profound legacy
that the Civil War Era had on the United States.

I expected that the exercise would be productively uncomfortable. Most of the students had to empathize
with characters they found morally repugnant. Understandably, that is hard to do, but it is essential to the
historian’s craft. To do the work of history, we must understand that real people — with all their virtues and
ﬂaws — made history. We need not sympathize with them or absolve them, but we commit to comprehending
them on their own terms.

Learning that my class contributed to a climate of racial insensitivity on campus has compelled me to reﬂect
on how I teach. Have my courses overemphasized an intellectual, almost clinical engagement with the past
that disregards the emotional and moral turmoil such an encounter can cause? As a historian I confront the
brutality of racism in my research every day, and I treat it with the critical distance my discipline has taught
me. Perhaps I have become desensitized to our painful past —— like a doctor habituated to delivering a bad
prognosis.

Perhaps in encouraging my students to practice empathy with people who lived in the past, I forgot to
practice empathy with the very people sitting in my classroom.

The Call to Action, its list of grievances and demands, has received a mixed response from the faculty here at

the college. The majority, including me, have proffered support, but some professors worry that the student
movement threatens ‘dCtILlCIIIlﬂi;c_t‘tlgllll. Will new administrators, additional academic resources, and
diversity training lead to more invasive measures that undermine our authority as experts and constrain our
freedom of speech?

Those concerns are real. So are the concerns of marginalized students.

As Claremont McKenna rebuilds and moves forward, our faculty, administrators, and students will have to
overcome resentment and skepticism. We will have to comprehend one another with humility and empathy.
As professors, we may have to rethink the space of the classroom — from a place under our authority to an
environment that we co-create with our students. From my corner of campus, I find myself with a renewed
commitment to teaching history and, through history, empathy.

I will not shrink from difﬁcult conversations about race and power. I will probably assign a role-playing game
again although I will do more to prepare students for the emotional difficulties such work can entail.
Alongside critical engagement with the past, I will create space for contemplating the vital concerns of our
present. I have heard the Call; this is how I will respond.

Suspensions Fail to Halt

" BY JOHN MOSQUEDA
Times Staff Writer

About 15 black and Chicano stu-
dents who took over the main admin-
istration building of the Claremont
Colleges remained camped inside late
Tuesday. .

Theytrefused to leave in the after-
noon, when schodl "officials declared
they had been suspended frcim their
classes. And they refused to leave
'. Tuesday night, despite a court order

telling them to leave immediately. '

Administratdrs weie given the op-

tion of summoning police to physical-
ly eject the p10teste1s

. But‘.
"w e 're. not planning to enf01ee the 01 -

‘ der until some time in the 1110111111g

' He said administrators were meeting
with activists backing the p1otesters
and would hold discussions all night

if necessary. 1
The 15 students, who are protesting

the cancellation of a $00, 000 pro-
grams for black and Chicano fresh-
men, chained the doors f1 0111 the in-
' side. They prepared themselves with
food and sleeping bags and said they
would remain until the p1ogran1 was
reinstated. -

The students had walked into the

said a school spokesman.

building at 8: 30 am and told em-
ploycs they weie "taking ovei. " Out-
side the building, an estimated 100
other students milled about. some 01
them in front of entrances.

The workers were alloived to leave,
and the enhances were quickly

. blocked off by some of the students
f outside. Thev moved away afte1
school officials wa1ned them that

they were engaging at that point in
an unlawful demonstration.

By 10 pm, about 30 students re-
mained outside,'sittingquietly on the
grass surrounding the building. They

had sleeping bags and said they would 1

. “spendthenight.
Those inside announced in a press

release that "this sit-in is an act of
nonviolent civil disobedience.
will not destroy or distuxb any. 100-
01ds desks or files."

The canceled piogram in qUestion
gave 20 blacks and 20 Mexican-
Americans a six- -week refresher last
summer in academic, areas. The pro-
ject was dropped because it did not
prove effective and was too ex-
pensive, school officials said.

l' o t. v Q' 00

We "

in arsonist

The Claremont Colleges are offer-
ing a reward of $1,000 for informa-'
tlon leading to the arrest and convic-
tion of arson suspects in connection
with recent fires and bomb threats
on the campus. ‘

The reward is being offered by the
Council of the Claremont Colleges,
comprised of the presidents of the
colleges. Fires have occurred at
Holmes Hall, the Campus security
offices, Renwick Gymnasium,
Harwood Court, Mudd-Blaisdell Dor-
mitory and the College Infirmary.

Bomb threats have been made
against various campus buildings,
but all have turned Out to be hoaxes.

If at all possible, the names of the
person providing the information
will be held in complete confidence,
according to Mark Curtis, council
president.

Colleges offer $1,000

search

Information should be furnished to

the Claremont Police Department,
6264296, or the Claremont Colleges
Security Office, 626-8511, extension
2000.
‘Three fires on the campus of
Pomona College Thursday, caused
some smoke and structural damage.
Bomb threats against nearly 20
buildings occurred between Thurs-
day morning and Friday morning.

Other fires and bomb threats have .
plagued the campuses in Claremont
during the past two weeks.

The Claremont Colleges have been
the site of unrest and sit-in
demonstrations, including the oc-
cupation of the Pendleton business
building, as the result of cutbacks
and faculty tenure changes in the '
Chicano and Black Studies Centers
programs.

 

Maw-assiwirm'mMMny-aaem»).-.m-.-_-¢e.4.-.sv..v.~'.fay-“user; ‘il'iay'f‘ T’ °~ ' ' ' ' ' ‘

”79” abide, [gag/”855 ﬂ/ﬂjfl

”fan—animal“

17A
/;1 ﬁ/[m M975

fi'